So we implemented autocomplete, we could
try a little bit of a different pattern.
There's a pattern I talked
about towards beginning,
which is sometimes you hit an API.
With that API,
you have to hit another API,
right you don't get all
the data that you need.
And sometimes this is intentional,
like maybe it's a List View and
you have some of the data and then you
wanna kind of decorated with more data.
Sometimes it's just
the API that you got and
it is totally on the back end team's
backlog to give you a better API, yeah.
Way, down on the backlog.
It's there though, and
you got to do what you gotta do.
So these are both situations, both
the positive happy version of this and
the sad version of it, regardless how we
might solve for it is a similar idea.
So instead of searching on a keystroke the
functionality that we want now we're gonna
hit the fetch button and we're gonna
get like the Pokemon that matches.
And if you saw before we only got
the name the ID and the classification.
In this case what we wanna do is we wanna
get that Pokemon we'll show that data and
then we'll find out more, like if I go
to an individual one if I say Pika 25,
you can see I get a whole
bunch of other information,
most of which I don't care about,
but some of it I do.
But so, we wanna change this a little bit,
we're gonna steal from a little
bit of our previous code as well.
But let's go ahead and for now,
let's call this old search just so
we can don't have to deal with the comment
in and out and moving it around.
So, instead of the search input
like that's an a form, and
we went to either I hit Enter, or
to hit the button, it'll submit the form
that's gonna be when I go fetch one so
instead of an autocomplete.
We'll maybe got a list of names.
In this case, what we wanna do is okay,
we have found one that we wanna search for
and return it for them, great.
So, what we'll do is but
first, we don't know the ID,
we don't know the ID until
the search results come back.
We just want the search results the first
one that matches, of the first one that
matches, we then wanna go get the
subsequent data for that Pokemon, right?
So we do have one more little helper
function they should just bring in right
now called render Pokemon,
that just shows a different,
it's just a different
dominant relation thing.
It just shows like a div with a name and
bigger letters and stuff like that.
So let's think this out,
we have our search.
And that is now gonna be from the form,
and what do we care about with the form?
What action?
>> Target?
>> Well,
first of all what like what event?
>> Inputs.
>> Input work for a search field, but
this is what we go submit, alright.
So we'll submit, and
then that will trigger our pipeline.
And so there,
now this is interesting because we care,
they hit the forum we care
about the input field, right?
So we could say To
the search fields value.
So now this will be the contents
of the search field just
like we had on line 41 currently, great.
And then, what we'll do is now we should
add that value cuz we don't care about
the event target value we care
about what's in the search field.
We'll go and we will get the Pokemon
just like we did before, all right.
So this I think most of
this will work right?
Like we wanna switch map,
cuz this way they hit it multiple
times we'll get the most recent one.
And you can argue maybe this
should be an exhaust map,
because go get what they got the next
time regardless they change it again.
Yeah, sure.
Whichever one makes you happier.
Like again, like sometimes this comes
down to nuance on the behavior pattern,
knowing that both are an option,
how they behave differently is
the important part which one you choose
to use again depends on your situation.
Okay, so what I will probably
do at this point is I want to
break out the act of getting
a search a Pokemon that matches
a search term from the getting
the additional data.
Cuz we know that search slash PIKA,
will get me everyone that matches PIKA and
the beginning, and then slash 25 will
get me the data about that given one.
So let's just separate those out so that
our observable does not become insane.
So we'll say const like search Pokemon.
With a search term, this will be very
similar to what we have down there.
Right, and from there,
we're gonna return this piece of it right?
It's basically this part
of our functionality
I shall replace it wholesale right there.
So we have the ability
to trigger the search,
we can take out the chaos
in this situation.
We can always add this chaos back in,
don't worry.
And then for the additional data or
we can call it like Pokemon data,
that's gonna take the.
Either the whole Pokémon or
the idea it's up to you.
And then kind of return.
From fetch.
And we'll get theoretically we could,
I got two endpoints here we could,
let's actually shave that off real quick.
You probably stored these variables,
right, but this will work.
So the endpoint for search plus the search
term, and this one will be the endpoint,
Plus the ID that we're looking for,
right and this part remains the same.
So, now we have basically
factory functions
that will produce observables scoped for
the fetch requests that we want.
You would do something very similar
if you're using promises or
what have you just kind of go
fetch that data, hard coding and
all over the place is a way
to make yourself sad later.
So now,
we know that when we when this happens,
we wanna go we have the search value.
So what's the first
thing that we wanna do?
Again, we wanna get the first one
that matches the search term.
We wanna display down the page,
and then we wanna go and
subsequently get all of the data
about that Pokemon, right?
So what's the,
what operator comes next in this search?
Whereas right now I'm just mapping
the submission to the value and
then moving on with my life.
>> Switch map,
cuz I wanna go make a request, right?
So take whatever happened, I've got now
the value as what's coming in here, and
we know that this takes a search term.
So we could actually theoretically, so
let's give ourselves some prettier we'll
handle this for us in a second, but let's
give ourselves some room in the meantime.
Make sure we have that comment at
the end we do, so we'll say switch map,
and which, what are we switch mapping?
>> Search Pokemon.
>> Search Pokemon?
Right, and that should give us back
exactly what we're looking for.
Now, let's actually see,
let's do this kind of piece by piece.
We've got that in place.
We're gonna turn subscribe just
to a console log for now, so
we can see everything in place.
Suite, open up the Console,
bigger eyes at slightly and so if I said,
You can see we get back that
initial data awesome, right?
We now have kind of what we need.
Let's go ahead and I'm thinking at
this point since we have that data,
let's do some data transformation here.
We'll say, cool, now I wanna plug
Pokemon, so if I do that,
we should just now get a raw array.
Now we only want the first one,
two ways I can handle this.
One is I could use a map and just
grabbed the first one out of the array.
The other one is, we know that merge
map will take anything observable like,
and use from and
put it into the stream right.
And so
what happens if we use RAM on an array.
From the very beginning,
but it's from on an array
>> What a bunch of observables.
>> Get a yeah, I got a stream of
all the values in there now right.
So I could use a map where I just
grab the first thing on the right,
that's totally I think I could do.
Or I could say,
Well figure out a way, so we're just
saying like cool map over this return
the thing but then turn that
array into a stream of values,
is effectively the same thing as doing
And then merging it together, right?
We're saying like take that array and
stream them one by one instead
of streaming me the array.
So we'll go ahead and say merge map,
give me the series of them.
So if I say, get a stream of every
Pokemon that starts with others B and U.
Now in this case, I could just render
those one by one right I no longer
have an array that has I have to iterate
over in my DOM manipulation code
I could just one by one as they came
through, but I only want the first one.
What can I do to get that
>> Take one
>> Take one.
Take one will get me just
the first one be you fetch,
I just get Bulbasaur just not
an array of one just the raw object.
Take one is common enough,
that there is another operator
does basically the same thing does
anyone take a wild guess what it is?
>> First?
Right good, so first, and yeah,
like the other part of the auto importing.
Are you auto imported from lodash or
ext JS, be you boom, all right?
So now, from the search I am switching to
the most recent one if I slammed on that
button, we could put in all of that
same logic that we had before.
But I'm getting the first one through and
now we could theoretically,
Render it again that's just some DOM
manipulation code because trust me,
watching me write raw DOM
manipulation code by hand,
it's no one's idea of a good time.
So I did it made sure
it worked beforehand.
Right, you can see a load to the page.
This is interesting,
loading additional data.
Now that's hard coded because
basically unless we have
the additional data on that object,
it shows that, right.
So now what we wanna
do is upon loading it,
we wanna then take that information and
fetch additional data.
Cool and so what would we do here
we have a few options, right?
We kind of wanna, this will render it and
we'll get the Pokemon back where
we can do more stuff, right?
Cuz tap, takes whatever you gave it and
passes it along.
Fair well, what else do we wanna do?
>> We could switch map on the get Pokemon.
>> We can switch map on the get Pokemon,
right?
Now, we could merge map to but y'all have
figured out the trick here already and
why this becomes problematic.
Switch map is probably our right choice,
so I will not do the thing where I write
the wrong code and trick you, cuz you've
already guessed the right answer.
So we will switch map to that Pokemon.
And in there, what we can do is,
we can go ahead and
we can get that one as well right.
So we've got the Pokemon in this case and
we could say,
this is this code is gonna have
some problems too right so
we could say, switch map.
And then we'll return, From that Pokemon.
And then theoretically
we could call render.
What we need to do at this point is
put it on to that Pokemon object,
that we had before.
So we've got that.
So let's say this point,
let's see what we have at this point.
Console I'll get at the end, right?
So later I get that data.
And I could theoretically target that
part of the DOM, but the other tricky
part is like I could do the first, I could
render to the page, then I get this data.
I could also subsequently do that as well.
There's a few ways that I could do this,
I could target that and
that would probably enough
to get me the data.
The other thing I could do
is I could kind of try to do
them little bit both at the same time,
right?
So what if we tried this, we'll take our
switch map where we have the Pokemon.
And we're just gonna store that
in a variable for a second.
Now we know that if we wanna
do anything in ArcGIS,
we have to turn even our raw
values back into observables.
It's kinda like a synchronous code
once you start playing with async,
everything has to be async, right?
The second you have one synchronous
function in there like you don't have
async code anymore or
you just have a headache or bugs.
So we'll say.
Turn that into an observable.
And now we've also got We could
go ahead and we could say,
Our additional data, we just called data
if you wanted to or an additional data.
Is get that Pokemon data without Pokemon.
And, Put it all together.
So here we can just map it.
This is kind of what we do a scan earlier,
right?
We can save our data.
So we've got the Pokemon scope,
we've got the data in scope.
Everything about
the Pokemon plus the data.
Nope?
Right and that out of here we need to
return both of those at the same time
So it'll pass through that initial one and
so here we could actually move this down,
so we'll start fetching our data.
Try this out You can see that
it loads right into passes.
Now there is an issue here where, if we
slowed this down, we'd be getting all of
this we'd be doing all this and
then they could theoretically.
So we can use a switch map or an exhaust
map depending on what we wanna do.
If you're like, finish what they did,
for some reason, exhaust map,
we'll pull this all together.
But if we look at this, let's review.
We go get the first one, and
then we're gonna kind of fire,
we'll take showing the initial one
if it comes back super fast, cool,
do both but
then kind of give me both pieces of data.
Because when I did them in a stream
that problem with the pipe, cool,
you had the Pokémon and that data.
And then you do the second one then
you only have the second piece.
Here we're just gonna kind of like, I have
a Pokemon maybe we'll get more stuff, and
then I'm gonna merge them both here and
then keep emitting data.
So I can kinda update my data store you
could probably do this with a scan as
well, but they're just kind of different
ways to kinda manipulate the streams and
pull them together